



Network Working Group                                         S. Bingler
Internet-Draft                                                    Google
Intended status: Informational                             12 March 2025
Expires: 13 September 2025


                        HSTS Tracking Prevention
                 draft-hsts-tracking-prevention-latest

Abstract

   As mentioned in {Section 14.9 of RFC6797}, it's possible for entities
   in control of multiple hosts to encode arbitrary data within a user
   agent's HSTS policy store.  This data can later be retrieved and
   could be used to identify users.

   This document proposes a change to the user agent processing model of
   {RFC6797} to enable user agents to employ tracking mitigation
   methods.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 13 September 2025.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  HSTS Tracking Prevention
     3.1.  Monkey-Patches against RFC6797
       3.1.1.  Prevent Servers From Saving Tracking Data
       3.1.2.  Prevent Servers From Retrieving Tracking Data.
       3.1.3.  Make Correlating Data Between Sites Infeasible
   4.  Security Considerations
   5.  IANA Considerations
   6.  Normative References
   Acknowledgments
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS), {RFC6797}, improves security
   for users by allowing a host to tell the user agent that it should
   only ever be accessed over a secure connection.

   However, the design of HSTS allows for servers to abuse its state
   caching in order to set and retrieve arbitrary data, potentially for
   the purposes of tracking a user around the web. {Section 14.9 of
   RFC6797} warns of this possibility but does not discuss prevention.

   This document offers some minor modifications to {Section 8 of
   RFC6797} that allows for user agents to implement a way to prevent
   tracking of the user.

   It also touches on potential implementations and their downsides.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

3.  HSTS Tracking Prevention

   Tracking prevention can take a couple of forms:

   *  Prevent servers from setting tracking data.

   *  Prevent servers from retrieving tracking data.

   *  Make correlating data between sites infeasible.

   The first could be implemented by ignoring Strict-Transport-Security
   response headers from tracking hosts.  This requires user agents to
   ignore otherwise valid Strict-Transport-Security response headers if
   the user agent has reason to believe that header would be used for
   tracking purposes.

   The second could be implemented by not upgrading URI for tracking
   hosts.  This requires user agents to not upgrade otherwise eligible
   URIs to "https" if the user agent has reason to believe the upgraded
   URI would be used for tracking purposes.

   The third could be implemented by partitioning the HSTS policy store
   by the current site the user is on.  This would force any server
   interested in tracking a user to set new data on every site, making
   it infeasible to correlate the user’s visits between sites via HSTS
   upgrades.

3.1.  Monkey-Patches against RFC6797

3.1.1.  Prevent Servers From Saving Tracking Data

   To allow user agents the option of preventing hosts they believe are
   tracking the user from setting HSTS data {Section 8.1.1 of RFC6797}
   should be changed as follows:

    If the substring matching the host production from the Request-URI
    (of the message to which the host responded) syntactically matches
    the IP-literal or IPv4address productions from Section 3.2.2 of
    [RFC3986], then the UA MUST NOT note this host as a Known HSTS Host.

    Otherwise, if the substring...

   should be modified to include

    If the substring matching the host production from the Request-URI
    (of the message to which the host responded) syntactically matches
    the IP-literal or IPv4address productions from Section 3.2.2 of
    [RFC3986], then the UA MUST NOT note this host as a Known HSTS Host.

    If the UA has reason to believe this host intends to set tracking
    data then the UA MAY not note this host as a Known HSTS Host.

    Otherwise, if the substring...

   {Section 2.4.1.1 of RFC6797} step 4 may also need to be rewritten in
   a similar fashion.

3.1.2.  Prevent Servers From Retrieving Tracking Data.

   To allow user agents the option of preventing hosts they believe are
   tracking the user from retrieving HSTS data {Section 8.3 of RFC6797}
   should be changed as follows:

     1.  Extract from the URI any substring described by the host
         component of the authority component of the URI.

     2.  If the substring is null, then there is no match with any Known
         HSTS Host.

   should be modified to include

   1.  Extract from the URI any substring described by the host
       component of the authority component of the URI.

   2. If the UA has reason to believe this host intends to retrieve tracking
      data then the UA MAY abort this algorithm.

   2.  If the substring is null, then there is no match with any Known
       HSTS Host.

3.1.3.  Make Correlating Data Between Sites Infeasible

   Making data correlation infeasible for tracking servers could be
   implemented a number of ways, but a straightforward design would be
   to keep the HSTS policies of different sites separated, so that even
   if tracker.example is embedded into site.example and
   othersite.example it cannot easily track users between those sites.
   Doing this is frequently referred to as partitioning.

   This can be allowed by modifying the storage and indexing requirement
   of {Section 5.3 of RFC6797} to allow for partitioning of the HSTS
   policy Store.

   UAs store and index HSTS Policies based strictly upon the domain
   names of the issuing HSTS Hosts.

   This means that UAs will maintain the HSTS Policy of any given HSTS
   Host separately from any HSTS Policies issued by any other HSTS Hosts
   whose domain names are...

   Should be modified to include

   UAs store and index HSTS Policies based strictly upon the domain
   names of the issuing HSTS Hosts.

   Note: UAs MAY decide to partition their HSTS policies by other inputs such
   as the top-level site the agent has been navigated to. In this case the UA
   should store and index HSTS Policies within that partition based strictly
   upon the domain names of the issuing HSTS Hosts.

   This means that UAs will maintain the HSTS Policy of any given HSTS
   Host separately from any HSTS Policies issued by any other HSTS Hosts
   whose domain names are...

   {Section 8.2 of RFC6797} should receive a similar change

    A given domain name may match a Known HSTS Host's domain name in one
    or both of two fashions: a congruent match, or a superdomain match.
    Alternatively, there may be no match.

    The steps below determine whether there are any matches, and if so,
    of which fashion:

   Should be modified to include

   A given domain name may match a Known HSTS Host's domain name in one
   or both of two fashions: a congruent match, or a superdomain match.
   Alternatively, there may be no match.

   Note: If the UA has decided to partition its HSTS Policies then the
   following algorithm MUST be performed only on HSTS Policies within the
   applicable partition.

   The steps below determine whether there are any matches, and if so,
   of which fashion:

4.  Security Considerations

   Depending on the tracking prevention technique employed the UA may
   risk reducing the security of HTTP requests.  Many UAs however
   implement some form of mixed content blocking and upgrading along
   with automatic upgrades of navigations to https top-level sites.
   These behaviors help limit any potential security decreases.

5.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

6.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC6797]  Hodges, J., Jackson, C., and A. Barth, "HTTP Strict
              Transport Security (HSTS)", RFC 6797,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC6797, November 2012,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6797>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO acknowledge.

Author's Address

   Steven Bingler
   Google
   Email: bingler@google.com
